# Summary:
--------

Project has been designed based on data modeling concepts in Postgres and ETL pipeline using Python. To complete the project, have defined fact and dimension tables for a star schema , and have written an ETL pipeline that transfers data from files in two local directories into these tables in Postgres using Python and SQL.

# How to run:
-----------


Step 1: Run create_tables.py to create your database and tables.<br>
Step 2: Run etl.py to run the etl piplines.<br>
Step 3: Run test.ipynb to confirm your records were successfully inserted into each table.<br>



# Data, Files and Scripts:
-------------------------

## Files:<br>
**Song Dataset:** The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song<br>

**logs Dataset:** <br>log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.<br>


## Tables:
**Fact Table**<br>
songplays - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong <br>

**Dimension Tables**<br>
users - users in the app<br>
songs - songs in music database<br>
artists - artists in music database<br>
time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units<br>

## Scripts:<br>
**test.ipynb** displays the first few rows of each table to let you check your database.<br>
**create_tables.py** drops and creates your tables. You run this file to reset your tables before each time you run your ETL scripts.<br>
**etl.ipynb** reads and processes a single file from song_data and log_data and loads the data into your tables. This notebook contains detailed instructions on the ETL process for each of the tables.<br>
**etl.py** reads and processes files from song_data and log_data and loads them into your tables. You can fill this out based on your work in the ETL notebook.<br>
**sql_queries.py** contains all your sql queries, and is imported into the last three files above.<br>
